# Google-Takeout-Photos-Sorter
A small python script to copy and organize photos downloaded with Google Takeout


## Google Takeout sucks. 

This script makes it suck a little less. Downloading your photos should be as seamless as using Google Photos. This script will __copy__ all .JPG and .jpg images from the auto-generated folders and organize them by year and month. It will also preserve non-autogenerated folders and __copy__ the images in them as well. 

### Requirements: 
* Python3+

### Instructions: 

[__Download your google photos in a single download, if possible.__](https://takeout.google.com/settings/takeout) 
I'm not sure this will work properly if you run it on distributed downloads. 

1) Place the three python files in your downloaded and extracted Takeout directory one level above your images folders. 
e.g. home/pictures/GooglePhotosArchive/takeout-20200101T21000Z-001/Takeout
2) Run the script using python3+ from a terminal in the 'Takeout' directory

<pre><code>$ python3 sorter.py</pre></code>

### What it does:
1) Take user input to locate the parent directory. If none found, return an error message.
    * Create a list of the sub-folders in the parent directory.
    * List the sub-folders for the user.
2) Take user input to determine the new parent directory for moved files.
3) Loop over each folder in a parent directory.
    * Find all the ".JPG" files in the current folder.
    * Copy the first part of the folders name (year and month). By default it sorts by month and year.
    * If the folder doesn't exist, create a new folder in a parent directory and name it the year and month.
        * Add the name of the new folder to a list to print for the user.
    * Copy the images to the new folder in the specified directory.
        * Increment the images_count to print a total images copied for the user.
4) Display a super amazing spinner while working...
5) Print a user success message that includes the new 
   folders printed in a list and a total count of the images copied.

Thanks to [Tagar](https://github.com/Tagar/stuff/blob/master/spinner.py) for making a solid spinner script!